index.md, before:

|-|-|
[Research](research.md) | [Publications](publications.md) | [Software](software.md) | [Contact](contact.md) | [CV](gabriele_albertini_vitae.pdf){:target="_blank"} |
|-|-|
| | |
|-|-|

![](images/profile_photo_id_bw.jpg)

I work on fracture of materials, friction and earthquakes. 
I use a combination of numerical modeling of solids and theoretical models to gain a better understanding of experimental observation. 
I also have experience on experimental fracture mechanics and Digital Image Correlation.

I am a Swiss National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow at Harvard University and working with [Katia Bertoldi](https://bertoldi.seas.harvard.edu/){:target="_blank"} on tunable frictional surfaces.

I received my PhD at Cornell University under the guidance of [David Kammer](https://ifb.ethz.ch/compmech/people/prof-dr-david-kammer.html){:target="_blank"} and my dissertation is on [Nucleation and Propagation of Fracture in Heterogeneous Materials](https://www-proquest-com.proxy.library.cornell.edu/dissertations-theses/nucleation-propagation-fracture-heterogeneous/docview/2550608833/se-2?accountid=10267){:target="_blank"}.

I used numerical and theoretical models to uncover the [physical mechanisms governing friction](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2019.103826){:target="_blank"} in a collaboration with [Jay Fineberg](http://old.phys.huji.ac.il/~jay/){:target="_blank"} and [Ilya Svetlizky](https://scholar.google.co.il/citations?user=44mVMhIAAAAJ&hl=en){:target="_blank"}, who performed the experimental work.

I worked on an experimental project on fracture of [multi-material 3D printed polymers](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.127.035501){:target="_blank"} with [Laurent Ponson](http://www.laurentponson.com/){:target="_blank"} and [Mathias Lebihain](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ZUSWpmMAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao){:target="_blank"}.

I collaborated with [Ahmed Elbanna](http://publish.illinois.edu/mcslabuiuc/people/ahmed-ettaf-elbanna/){:target="_blank"} on the development of a new [hybrid numerical method](http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.08756){:target="_blank"} coupling Finite Elements and Boundary Elements.

I used theoretical and numerical models to study the [stochastic properties of static friction](http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.06113){:target="_blank"} in collaboration with [Mircea Grigoriu](https://www.cee.cornell.edu/faculty-directory/mircea-dan-grigoriu){:target="_blank"}. 

I am working with [Greg McLaskey](https://courses.cit.cornell.edu/mclaskey/people.html){:target="_blank"} and [Chun-Yu Ke](https://chunyuke.com/){:target="_blank"} and use theoretical and numerical models to uncover the friction law of laboratory scale earthquakes performed on a 3m granite fault.


<!--I am wondering if you might add some broader statements about your work and your professional goals. What is your larger project? What questions interest you? What are the broader impacts of your work? What broader conversations in the field does your work contribute to?

You might look at some bio statements and websites from others in your field to see how they answer these kinds of questions. 

-->

Commit message:

Add weitz and new job

index.md, after:

|-|-|
[Research](research.md) | [Publications](publications.md) | [Software](software.md) | [Contact](contact.md) | [CV](gabriele_albertini_vitae.pdf){:target="_blank"} |
|-|-|
| | |
|-|-|

![](images/profile_photo_id_bw.jpg)

I work on fracture of materials, friction and earthquakes. 
I use a combination of numerical and theoretical models to gain better understanding of experimental observation. 
I also have experience on experimental fracture mechanics and friction. In these experiments, I measure motion and deformation of the material using [Digital-Image-Correlation](research.md){:target="_blank"} and Machine-Learning-based techniques.

I am Assistant Professor at the Faculy of Engineering at the University of Nottingham, UK.
Previously, I was a Swiss National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow at Harvard University.
I worked with [Katia Bertoldi](https://bertoldi.seas.harvard.edu/){:target="_blank"} on tunable frictional surfaces.
I also worked with [Dave Weitz](https://weitzlab.seas.harvard.edu/){:target="_blank"} on the dynamics of extended fractures.

I received my PhD at Cornell University under the guidance of [Dave Kammer](https://ifb.ethz.ch/compmech/people/prof-dr-david-kammer.html){:target="_blank"} and my dissertation is on [Nucleation and Propagation of Fracture in Heterogeneous Materials](https://www-proquest-com.proxy.library.cornell.edu/dissertations-theses/nucleation-propagation-fracture-heterogeneous/docview/2550608833/se-2?accountid=10267){:target="_blank"}.

I used numerical and theoretical models to uncover the [physical mechanisms governing friction](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2019.103826){:target="_blank"} in a collaboration with [Jay Fineberg](http://old.phys.huji.ac.il/~jay/){:target="_blank"} and [Ilya Svetlizky](https://scholar.google.co.il/citations?user=44mVMhIAAAAJ&hl=en){:target="_blank"}, who performed the experimental work.

I worked on an experimental project on fracture of [multi-material 3D printed polymers](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.127.035501){:target="_blank"} with [Laurent Ponson](http://www.laurentponson.com/){:target="_blank"} and [Mathias Lebihain](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ZUSWpmMAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao){:target="_blank"}.

I collaborated with [Ahmed Elbanna](http://publish.illinois.edu/mcslabuiuc/people/ahmed-ettaf-elbanna/){:target="_blank"} on the development of a new [hybrid numerical method](http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.08756){:target="_blank"} coupling Finite Elements and Boundary Elements.

I used theoretical and numerical models to study the [stochastic properties of static friction](http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.06113){:target="_blank"} in collaboration with [Mircea Grigoriu](https://www.cee.cornell.edu/faculty-directory/mircea-dan-grigoriu){:target="_blank"}. 

I am working with [Greg McLaskey](https://courses.cit.cornell.edu/mclaskey/people.html){:target="_blank"} and [Chun-Yu Ke](https://chunyuke.com/){:target="_blank"} and use theoretical and numerical models to uncover the friction law of laboratory scale earthquakes performed on a 3m granite fault.


<!--I am wondering if you might add some broader statements about your work and your professional goals. What is your larger project? What questions interest you? What are the broader impacts of your work? What broader conversations in the field does your work contribute to?

You might look at some bio statements and websites from others in your field to see how they answer these kinds of questions. 

-->
